the first case of the polio virus
eradicated from the Gaza Strip 25 years
ago has been detected in a 10-month-old
child the United Nations Chief says this
Grim development must Usher in a pause
in fighting to vaccinate gaza's children
I am appealing to all parties to provide
concrete assurances right away
guaranteeing humanitarian pauses for the
campaign let's be clear the ultimate
vaccine for PO is peace and an immediate
humanitarian Seas
fire desperate living conditions and the
collapse of the health and sanitation
systems after more than 10 months of War
have allowed the virus's return in
severe cases it can infect the suffer
his spinal cord causing permanent
paralysis and even death given the
conditions of uh uh displacement
overcrowding um uh sewage contamination
lack of Clean Water um and overcrowding
these are ideal conditions for a very
high force of uh polio virus
transmission the World Health
Organization says it wants to roll out a
polio vaccination campaign from August
the 17th the first phase would Target
about 640,000 children younger than 10
some of the most vulnerable
un appeals for a ceasefire on
humanitarian grounds so it staff can
move about safely and unhindered have
been rejected by Israel in the past we
need a massive change in the current
environment which is not only ceasefire
and and uh Peace So that um children can
be vaccinated but we also require
freedom of
movement at the end of July gaza's
Health Ministry declared the strip a
polio epidemic Zone the health system is
already overwhelmed by 1.8 million cases
of skin diseases and respiratory
infections on top of other communicable
diseases Israel knows the danger a polio
outbreak presents and began immunizing
soldiers deployed to Gaza in Late July
at least 95% vaccination coverage will
be needed during each round of a two
round campaign needed to prevent a
public health
emergency if unchecked the virus could
spread well beyond gaza's borders my
clel aljazera
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer